"I think there's a way that non-tech people undervalue the importance of relationships. Not to romanticize too much, but in the early 2000s things were different - people were building the web and connecting things because it was cool and an interesting problem." Talking with Sonali, it's hard not to feel excited about the work that technical people do. She's been at RC since the very beginning - more than 13 years and has had the chance to work with many notable tech people. "There was a time period when we had a lot of folks who worked on programming languages - the creators of Elm, Julia, and ClojureScript were part of RC at different times. It's interesting how we go through phases." In the beginning, she tells me, there was a focus on making New York a serious tech scene, and the focus of early batches reflected that. In the early days, RC used to play a more active role in people's projects, and staff members participated in batches more actively as contributors. But over time, RC changed its structure, allowing RC'ers to explore more freely. "A surprising thing happened with that change - we got more fun projects but we didn't lose the focus on serious programming."

The topic of my conversation with Sonali is "Life after RC," and we can't help but begin with the changes in recent years. "Things really changed in 2022," she tells me. "It's a whole cascade of things - it was harder for companies to go public, so it was harder for that capital to fund new ventures, and because of that there was less turnover in engineering roles, and it all plays into each other." But she lights up when she tells me how excited companies are to hire people from RC. "The reason most companies hire from RC is because they are so impressed with the culture. They want to bring some of that into their company."

With American Thanksgiving next week, my thoughts are on gratitude, and I ask Sonali what responsibilities we have to RC after we become alumni. "First of all, I think alumni is an interesting word - we don't consider someone an alum until they're one year out from their initial batch. We think of ourselves as partners to RC'ers through their batch and finding a job." And as to what responsibilities we have, she's quick to point out, "None. You don't owe RC anything, but we are delighted when RC'ers become part of our extended network, when they bring back ideas, give workshops, and consider hiring through RC for future roles."

I asked her about what most people do after RC. "It's a mix. Most people look for a job, and we're able to help many of them. For some, that's direct placement. For others, it's guidance on resumes, interviewing, and getting through the process. Sometimes we have open roles but haven't found the right RC'er yet, and sometimes we have an RC'er but don't have the right role for them yet. The placement really matters, and we want to honor people's preferences in a job - be that location, industry, or other factors. For some people, though, they need a break. They take a break and travel. Others go back to a job because they were on sabbatical, and for a small few, they're retired and don't need to work."

As our interview closes, the topic comes to emoji. "What do you wish people were using more?" I ask her. "Ooo, the hammer and wrench! I love that one."
